README.md, before:

<!-- <h1 align="center"><a href="https://coding4.gaiama.org" title="GaiAma.org">Coding4.GaiAma.org</a></h1> -->
<h1 align="center">Coding4GaiAma</h1>

## Sites

- [coding4.gaiama.org](https://coding4.gaiama.org) - source: [sites/coding4.gaiama.org](sites/coding4.gaiama.org)

## Packages

- [gatsby-transformer-leasot](packages/gatsby-transformer-leasot) - lets you query `TODO:` comments in your source code [more](#roadmap)
- [remark-truncate-links](packages/remark-truncate-links) - shortens plain links in markdown you haven't wrapped in `[]()` used in `gatsby-transformer-leasot`
- [gatsby-remark-slug-i18n](packages/gatsby-remark-slug-i18n) - The same as [remark-slug](https://github.com/remarkjs/remark-slug) using [speakingurl](https://github.com/pid/speakingurl) instead of [github-slugger](https://github.com/Flet/github-slugger)
- [rehype-accessible-emojis](packages/rehype-accessible-emojis) - basically same as [gatsby-remark-a11y-emoji](https://github.com/florianeckerstorfer/gatsby-remark-a11y-emoji) but for rehype as I think I couldn't get the other one working in MDX

## Not yet implemented

- Typescript
- [conventional-changelog-cli](https://github.com/conventional-changelog/conventional-changelog)
- [commit message template](.github/commit_template)
- [All Contributors by Kent C. Dodds](https://github.com/kentcdodds/all-contributors)

## License

[MIT](LICENSE) [GaiAma](https://www.gaiama.org)

Commit message:

feat: update gatsby-remark-lang-slug name, update README

README.md, after:

<!-- <h1 align="center"><a href="https://coding4.gaiama.org" title="GaiAma.org">Coding4.GaiAma.org</a></h1> -->
<h1 align="center">Coding4GaiAma</h1>

## Sites

- [coding4.gaiama.org](https://coding4.gaiama.org) - source: [sites/coding4.gaiama.org](sites/coding4.gaiama.org)

## Packages

- [gatsby-transformer-leasot](packages/gatsby-transformer-leasot) - lets you query `TODO:` comments in your source code [more](#roadmap)
- [remark-truncate-links](packages/remark-truncate-links) - shortens plain links in markdown you haven't wrapped in `[]()` used in `gatsby-transformer-leasot`
- [gatsby-remark-lang-slug](packages/gatsby-remark-lang-slug) - [gatsby-remark-slug](https://www.npmjs.com/package/gatsby-remark-slug) yet it uses [speakingurl](https://github.com/pid/speakingurl) instead of [github-slugger](https://github.com/Flet/github-slugger) for proper slugs on pages in languages other than English.
- [rehype-accessible-emojis](packages/rehype-accessible-emojis) - basically same as [gatsby-remark-a11y-emoji](https://github.com/florianeckerstorfer/gatsby-remark-a11y-emoji) but for rehype as I think I couldn't get the other one working in MDX

## Not yet implemented

- Typescript
- [conventional-changelog-cli](https://github.com/conventional-changelog/conventional-changelog)
- [commit message template](.github/commit_template)
- [All Contributors by Kent C. Dodds](https://github.com/kentcdodds/all-contributors)

## License

[MIT](LICENSE) [GaiAma](https://www.gaiama.org)
